=head1 NAME

shib-metagen - Generate metadata for a Shibboleth SP

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<shib-metagen> [B<-12ADLNO>] [B<-c> I<cert> [B<-c> I<cert> ...]]
    [B<-e> I<entity-id>] [B<-f> I<format> [B<-f> I<format> ...]]
    [B<-h> I<host> [B<-h> I<host> ...]] [B<-n> I<host> [B<-n> I<host> ...]]
    [B<-o> I<organization>] [B<-a> I<admin> [B<-a> I<admin> ...]]
    [B<-s> I<support> [B<-s> I<support> ...]]
    [B<-t> I<tech> [B<-t> I<tech> ...]] [B<-u> I<url>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Generate metadata for a Shibboleth SP.  The metadata is printed to
standard output.  Most of the parameters are optional, but at least one of
B<-h> or B<-n> must be given to specify the hostname to use in
constructing URLs for the Shibboleth service for the SP.  Other metadata
can be added by using the other command-line parameters.  Most parameters
can be given multiple times.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-1>

Generate SAML 1.0 metadata.  The default, if neither B<-1> nor B<-2> is
given, is to generate metadata for both SAML 1.0 and SAML 2.0.

=item B<-2>

Generate SAML 2.0 metadata.  The default, if neither B<-1> nor B<-2> is
given, is to generate metadata for both SAML 1.0 and SAML 2.0.

=item B<-A>

Include artifact metadata.

=item B<-a> I<admin>

An administrative contact for this Shibboleth SP.  This option may be
omitted, in which case administrative contact metadata is not included, or
may be given multiple times to list multiple contacts.  I<admin> should be
in the form C<I<first>/I<last>/I<email>> where I<first> is the given name
and I<last> is the surname.

=item B<-c> I<cert>

Specifies the SSL certificate used to identify this Shibboleth SP.  This
option may be given multiple times to specify multiple certificates.  If
it is not given, the default certificate is F<sp-cert.pem> in the current
working directory.

=item B<-D>

Include discovery service information in the metadata.  By default,
discovery service information is not included.

=item B<-e> I<entity-id>

The entity ID for this SP.  This must be a unique identifier for this SP
and must be a URL.  If B<-o> is given and B<-u> is not given, I<entity-id>
is used as the URL for the organization running this Shibboleth SP.  If it
is not specified, it defaults to C<https://I<host>/shibboleth> where
I<host> is the argument to the first B<-h> option.

=item B<-f> I<format>

Include this NameIDFormat in the metadata.  This option may be given more
than once.

=item B<-h> I<host>

A hostname for this SP (possibly a virtual host).  Either this option or
B<-n> must be specified at least once.  It should be repeated for every
virtual host that responds to the Shibboleth protocol.  B<-h> should be
used for hostnames or virtual hosts that use SSL.

=item B<-L>

Include Single Logout information in the metadata.  This is not included
by default.

=item B<-N>

Include NameID management information in the metadata.  This is not
included by default.

=item B<-n> I<host>

A hostname for this SP (possibly a virtual host).  Either this option or
B<-h> must be specified at least once.  It should be repeated for every
virtual host that responds to the Shibboleth protocol.  B<-n> should be
used for hostnames or virtual hosts that do not use SSL to protect the
Shibboleth communication.

=item B<-O>

Include XML namespace declarations in the generated metadata.  This is the
default.

=item B<-o> I<organization>

The name of the organization that runs this Shibboleth SP.  This option
may be given only once and may be omitted, in which case organization
metadata is not included.  This is normally not necessary but may be used
by other software systems for purposes such as displaying lists of
entities with human-readable names.

=item B<-s> I<support>

A support contact for this Shibboleth SP.  This option may be omitted, in
which case support contact metadata is not included, or may be given
multiple times to list multiple contacts.  I<support> should be in the
form C<I<first>/I<last>/I<email>> where I<first> is the given name and
I<last> is the surname.

=item B<-t> I<tech>

A technical contact for this Shibboleth SP.  This option may be omitted,
in which case technical contact metadata is not included, or may be given
multiple times to list multiple contacts.  I<tech> should be in the form
C<I<first>/I<last>/I<email>> where I<first> is the given name and I<last>
is the surname.

=item B<-u> I<url>

Sets the URL for the organization.  This information is only used if the
B<-o> option is also given to specify the name of the organization.  If
B<-o> is given and B<-u> is not given, the entity ID (set with B<-e>) is
used as the organization URL.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

This manual page was written by Russ Allbery for Debian GNU/Linux.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2009, 2011 Russ Allbery.  This manual page is hereby placed into
the public domain by its author.

=cut
